# SSAT_Line

#### Note: I'll fix this eventually, but as it stands there's a typo you'll need to fix before you can run this program. When you clone or otherwise download these files, in the directory name make sure to change the 'L' in 'SSAT_Line' to lowercase. KLibs currently requires that all directory names match the name of the experiment as listed in experiment.py.


This is experiment is one of two designed to directly compare performance in spatial & temporal search when stimuli are generated according to Duncan & Humphreys (1989) 'search surface'.

Two types of search are presented:

Spatial - A circluar array of 8, 12, or 16 items are simultaneously presented. On 1/2 of trials, one of these items is the target. Array remains on-screen for 10 seconds or until response.

Temporal - 16 items are presented in serial fashion centre-screen. On 1/2 of trials, one of the inner 12 items is the target. The array terminates as soon as a response is made, if no response is made during presentation an additional 5 seconds are alotted to make a response (during this time only a blank screen is presented). If no response is made during that time the trial self-terminates after the 5 second period has elapsed.

At the beginning of each trial, the target to be found is displayed for 1 second with the text "This is your target!", followed up with the presentation of a fixation cross centre-screen for 1 second.

In both tasks, the participant must press either the 'z' or '/' key to indicate whether the target is present/absent (response mappings are randomly selected to counter-balance across participants). Feedback saying 'incorrect' is presented for 1 second following incorrect responses, no feedback is given for correct responses.

In the present case, stimuli are lines of varying tilts. Each block, a target is generated by selecting a random tilt from 0-179º. Further, for each block, the similarities between targets & distractors, and between distractors themselves, are selected from one of four conditions:

1. Targets homogenous, distractors homogenous:
- Distractors have a single tilt, which is the target tilt + or - 20º

2. Targets homogenous, distractors heterogenous:
- Distractors each have 1 of 4 tilts, taken from the set [-40, -20, +20, +40º], respective to target tilt

3. Targets heterogenous, distractors homogenous:
- Distractors have a single tilt, which is the target tilt + or - 70º

4. Targets heterogenous, distractors heterogeneous:
- Distractors each have 1 of 4 tilts, taken from the set [-70, -50, +50, +70º], respective to target tilt.

The experiment begins with four practice blocks, each of 10 trials. 2 blocks are assigned to spatial search, the other 2 temporal search. Each stimulus condition is randomly assigned to one of these four blocks.

Following that, participants complete a block of 72 trials for each combination of search type & stimulus condition; for total of 8 blocks or 576 trials.

This experiment was written using KLibs, a experiment development framework created by the Klein Lab. In order to run this experiment, you first must install KLibs which can be found at: https://github.com/a-hurst/klibs
